Initialize 2021 Steering Committee Election docs (#5326)
kubernetes/community: events/elections/2021/README.md

  transparency and accountability policies for such groups
* Define and evolve project and group governance
  structures and policies
* Act as a final non-technical escalation point for any Kubernetes repository
* Request funds and other support from the CNCF (e.g. marketing, press, etc.)
* Define and enforce requirements for community groups to be in good standing
  such as having an approved charter

For more context, please see the [current steering committee backlog] or a
previous [governance meeting video] which led to this whole process.

## Eligibility

Please refer to the [Steering Committee Election Charter] for [Eligibility for candidacy]

Eligibility for voting in 2021 is defined as:

* People who had at least 50 contributions to the Kubernetes project over
  the past year, according to a snapshot taken 2021-MM-DD of the data driving
  the [devstats developer activity counts dashboard][devstats-dashboard],
  who are also [Org Members].
  Contributions include GitHub events like creating issues, creating PRs,
  reviewing PRs, commenting on issues, etc. For full details see
  [the SQL query used by devstats for developer activity counts][devstats-sql].

> * People who have submitted the [voter exemption form] and are accepted by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* People who have submitted the [voter exception form] and are accepted by
```

> * People who have submitted the [voter exemption form] and are accepted by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* People who have submitted the [voter exception form] and are accepted by
```

  the election committee.

Corporate affiliation is applied after the election. If an organization finds
itself with too many representatives it is up to those individuals to come
to a consensus on who should serve on the committee.

> ### Voter Exemption

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Voter Exception
```

We *explicitly* believe that the above heuristic will be inaccurate
and not represent the entire community. Thus we provide the form
for those who have contributed to the project but may not meet the above
criteria. Acceptance of a form submission will be defined by a simple
majority vote, and the criteria used during this process will be used to
help refine further elections.

If you otherwise qualify to vote but have not yet applied for Org Membership,
then please [request an exception][voter exemption form] (and please apply for
Org Membership as well).

Only contributions to projects and artifacts that fall under Steering
Committee's governance will be considered for voter exemption.

> Examples of contributions that would be considered:

Reviewer: This short list feels very narrow, and doesn't encompass the scope of additional types of contributions that have been considered eligible by past ECs.  Was there a specific SC discussion and vote on which kinds of activities should be eligible, and which not?

Author: > Was there a specific SC discussion and vote on which kinds of activities should be eligible, and which not?

No specific discussion/vote. This was my understanding from the election retro call.

> This short list feels very narrow, and doesn't encompass the scope of additional types of contributions that have been considered eligible by past ECs. 

This list is only meant as an example and not meant to include all contributions. Can you elaborate on other types of contributions that can be included here?

* Slack admins who are not active in GitHub
* Code of Conduct Committee members whose actions are private by default

Examples of contributions that would NOT be considered:
* Contributions to ecosystem projects and products

> * Organizing meetups or podcasts

Reviewer: So, doing broadcast activity that benefitted the community was considered an eligible exception criterion in 2020.  How did this change to become ineligible?

Author: > How did this change to become ineligible?

This was my understanding from the election retro call. Broadcast activities related to the upstream project would be considered because they would fall under steering's governance. Meetups and podcasts are end-user focused and don't fall under steering's governance.

| August XX    | Announcement of Election and publication of voters.md |
| August XX    | Steering Committee Meeting with Q+A with the candidates and community |
| September XX | All candidate bios due by 0000 UTC (5pm PST) |
| ~1 week      | Election prep week (voters.md validation and CIVS setup and testing)
| September XX | Election Begins via email ballots |
| October XX   | Deadline to submit voter exception forms and request a replacement ballot |
| October XX   | Election Closes by 0000 UTC (5pm PST) |
| October XX   | Private announcement of Results to SC members not up for election |
| October XX   | Private announcement of Results to all candidates |
| October XX   | Public announcement of Results at Public Steering Committee Meeting |
| October XX   | Election Retro |

## Candidacy Process

**Nomination**

If you want to stand for the election, create an issue in this GitHub repo
(kubernetes/community) with the title `Steering Committee Nomination: Your Name (@yourgithub)`.
After creating the issue, send an email to kubernetes-dev@googlegroups.com
with a link to the issue. The subject line of the email should be same as

> the title of the issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the title of the issue.  This email should encourage people to second your nomination on Github, as +1s via email will not count.  Here's an example email:

Hi!  I'm nominating __candidate__ for steering committee this year.  If you think they should run, please add your +1 as a comment on the issue _link_ with your name and the organization you work for.  While supportive replies are very nice, only comments on the issue will count towards their eligibility.
```

If you want to nominate someone else, you may do so, but PLEASE talk to them
first.

If you wish to accept a nomination from someone else, reply to the nomination
**issue** saying something like "I accept the nomination".

**Endorsement**

Once nominated, you must get the endorsement of three (3) different eligible
voters from three (3) different employers.  If you are eligible to vote
yourself, you count as one of the three. Endorsements from non-voting members
does not count towards the final count.

[Eligible voters] may endorse candidates of their choosing by replying to the
candidate's nomination **issue** saying something like "I endorse this nominee,

> and I work for <COMPANY>" or "+1". Please state that you are in voters.md,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and I work for <COMPANY>" or "+1". Please state that you are an eligible voter,
```

voters.md as part of the process is going away next year, so I'm just getting a head-start on removing references to it.

When a candidate has reached the necessary three endorsements, one of the
Election Officers will announce that on the GitHub issue.

**Running**

Eligible candidates can submit a pull request with a biography in this
directory with their platform and intent to run. This statement is
**limited to 300 words** and must follow the format of `firstnamelastname.md`.
The word limit applies to the source markdown file and the [`hack/verify-steering-election.sh`]
script can be used to check the word count.

Please refer to the [2020 candidate bios] for examples. Biography statements are optional.

Missed deadlines by the candidates will be addressed by steering on a per case basis to determine eligibility.

**Campaigning**

Please refer to the [Steering Committee Election Charter] and understand
that we care deeply about [limiting corporate campaigning]. The election
officers and members of the steering committee [pledge to recuse] themselves
from any form of electioneering.

You should be running as a "brand free" individual, based on your contribution
to the project as a member of this community, outside of whatever corporate
roles you may hold.

## Voting Process

> Kubernetes members in [voters.md] will receive a ballot via email. If you are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Eligible voters will receive a ballot via email. If you are
```

not on that list and feel you have worked on Kubernetes in a way that is NOT

> reflected in GitHub contributions, you can use the [voter exemption form] to ask

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reflected in GitHub contributions, you can use the [voter exception form] to ask
```

to participate in the election.

Elections will be held using time-limited [Condorcet] ranking on [CIVS]
using the [IRV method]. The top vote getters will be elected to the open
seats.

Employer diversity is encouraged, and thus maximal representation will be
enforced as spelled out in the [Steering Committee Election Charter].

You will be ranking your choices of the candidates with an option for
"no opinion". In the event of a tie, a coin will be flipped.

The election will open for voting starting September XX via email and
end three weeks after on October XX, 2021 at 00:00am UTC. You will receive
an email to the address on file at the start of the election from "Kubernetes
(CIVS Poll Supervisor) `<civs@cs.cornell.edu>`, please add to the list of addresses
you don't spam filter. Detailed voting instructions will be addressed in email
and the CIVS polling page. Please note that email ballots might be unreliable,
so you are encouraged to contact the election officials if you do not receive a

> ballot by September XX.

Reviewer: All of this will be hopefully obsolete by 2021, but I'll take it out then.

[Eligibility for voting]: https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/blob/master/elections.md#eligibility-for-voting
[Eligibility for candidacy]: https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/blob/master/elections.md#eligibility-for-candidacy
[limiting corporate campaigning]: https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/blob/master/elections.md#limiting-corporate-campaigning
[pledge to recuse]: https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/blob/master/elections.md#steering-committee-and-election-officer-recusal

[Condorcet]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Condorcet_method
[CIVS]: http://civs.cs.cornell.edu/
[IRV method]: https://www.daneckam.com/?p=374

[`hack/verify-steering-election.sh`]: https://git.k8s.io/community/hack/verify-steering-election.sh
[2020 candidate bios]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/events/elections/2021
[election officers]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/events/elections#election-officers
[Kubernetes Community Meeting]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/events/community-meeting.md
[Kubernetes Blog]: https://kubernetes.io/blog/
[eligible voters]: ./voters.md

> [voter exemption form]: https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/k8s-sc-election-2021

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[voter exception form]: https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/k8s-sc-election-2021
```

We *explicitly* believe that the above heuristic will be inaccurate
and not represent the entire community. Thus we provide the form
for those who have contributed to the project but may not meet the above
criteria. Acceptance of a form submission will be defined by a simple
majority vote, and the criteria used during this process will be used to
help refine further elections.

If you otherwise qualify to vote but have not yet applied for Org Membership,
then please [request an exception][voter exemption form] (and please apply for
Org Membership as well).

Only contributions to projects and artifacts that fall under Steering
Committee's governance will be considered for voter exemption.

Examples of contributions that would be considered:
* Slack admins who are not active in GitHub
* Code of Conduct Committee members whose actions are private by default

Examples of contributions that would NOT be considered:
* Contributions to ecosystem projects and products
* Organizing meetups or podcasts

### Schedule

<!-- While finalizing the dates in the schedule, ensure that:
- The Steering Committee and candidate Q+A occurs at a public SC meeting
  (usually a Monday).

> - Dealine to submit voter exception forms and request a

Reviewer 2: nit: deadline

  replacement ballot is ~3 days before voting closes.
- Private announcement of results to SC members is at least ~2 days
  before private announcement to all candidates.
- The interval between private announcement to all candidates and the
  public announcement is a weekend.
-->

| Date         | Event                    |
| ------------ | ------------------------ |
| July 1       | Steering Committee selects Election Committee |
| August XX    | Announcement of Election and publication of voters.md |
| August XX    | Steering Committee Meeting with Q+A with the candidates and community |
| September XX | All candidate bios due by 0000 UTC (5pm PST) |
| ~1 week      | Election prep week (voters.md validation and CIVS setup and testing)
| September XX | Election Begins via email ballots |
| October XX   | Deadline to submit voter exception forms and request a replacement ballot |
| October XX   | Election Closes by 0000 UTC (5pm PST) |
| October XX   | Private announcement of Results to SC members not up for election |

> | October XX   | Private announcement of Results to all candidates |

Reviewer 2: remind me why these two steps were split? communicating with a subset of steering might be tricky (I guess you'd have to drop down to individual emails to avoid sending to the private-steering list?)

Reviewer: No good reason, it was just how we did it in the past.

Author: > remind me why these two steps were split?

It was also done to make sure any changes needed to accommodate https://github.com/kubernetes/community/issues/5092 were discussed before the results were disclosed to all candidates.

Once we figure out how to go ahead with https://github.com/kubernetes/community/issues/5092, we can probably remove this split.

| October XX   | Public announcement of Results at Public Steering Committee Meeting |
| October XX   | Election Retro |

## Candidacy Process

**Nomination**

If you want to stand for the election, create an issue in this GitHub repo

> (kubernetes/community) with the title `Steering Committee Nomination: Your Name (@yourgithub)`.

Author: We talked about moving to GitHub PRs instead of issues, but I wasn't sure what the PR would change. Updating the list of nominees could lead to rebases again :/

Reviewer 2: was the flow something like:
1. nominator opens issue `#NNN`, people seconding the nomination comment or +1 the issue
2. to accept, candidate comments on the issue and opens PR with bio file marked as `Fixes #NNN`)
3. election committee adds `/lgtm` + `/approve` to the bio PR and takes responsibility for adding the candidate to the index, avoiding rebase conflicts

Reviewer: The PRs would be the PR for the candidate's Bio, of course.  That way asking them to write their bios isn't a seperate step.  We did this for Knative and it worked.

The drawback of that is that it makes it awkward for community members to nominate other people as candidates, but they can do that just by submitting a blank bio.

Reviewer 2: if the nominator opens an issue, and the candidate opens a bio PR resolving the issue, that seems like a reasonable flow

Reviewer: Yah.  I think the candidate themselves should be able to just open the PR without opening the issue though ... no?

After creating the issue, send an email to kubernetes-dev@googlegroups.com
with a link to the issue. The subject line of the email should be same as
the title of the issue.

If you want to nominate someone else, you may do so, but PLEASE talk to them
first.

If you wish to accept a nomination from someone else, reply to the nomination

> **issue** saying something like "I accept the nomination".

Reviewer 2: we could also have the candidate PR that adds their bio file resolve the issue

Reviewer: So ... I'm going to argue that we should leave this text alone BECAUSE this will all change when we deploy the new elections application, which has requirements for a specific git-centric workflow.

[CIVS]: http://civs.cs.cornell.edu/
[IRV method]: https://www.daneckam.com/?p=374

[`hack/verify-steering-election.sh`]: https://git.k8s.io/community/hack/verify-steering-election.sh

> [2020 candidate bios]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/events/elections/2021

Reviewer 2: 2021

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[2020 candidate bios]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/events/elections/2020
```
This is a ref link above pointing to the 2020 bios as examples:
https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/5326/files#diff-b2bd5da91ac54889f08d53c8a107d9097af1a7a1d0289d149d9e866a2cbcab81R148-R150
